README.md, before:

# Hard Stop

A simple, aggressive computer shutdown enforcer for macOS. During quiet hours (default 9 PM - 8 AM), your computer will shut down. If you turn it back on, it will shut down again every 5 minutes until quiet hours end.

No warnings. No dialogs. Just shutdown.

## How It Works

1. A **macOS LaunchAgent** runs the script every 5 minutes (configurable)
2. If the current time is within quiet hours, it runs `sudo shutdown -h now`
3. If you turn your computer back on during quiet hours, it will shut down again
4. This continues until 8 AM when quiet hours end

**Note on timing**: The first shutdown happens at the first 5-minute interval check after 9 PM (not exactly at 9:00 PM). Worst case is ~5 minutes after 9 PM.

### Why LaunchAgent (not cron)?

This uses macOS's native `launchd` system instead of cron:
- LaunchAgents are user-session aware (only run when logged in)
- Managed via `launchctl` commands
- The plist file defines the schedule (`StartInterval: 300` = every 300 seconds)

## Files

- `scripts/hardstop-kickout.sh` - the enforcement script (checks time, shuts down)
- `scripts/hardstop` - CLI wrapper for managing the service
- `scripts/install.sh` - installer
- `launchd/com.hardstop.kickout.plist` - LaunchAgent configuration
- `sudoers/hardstop-shutdown` - sudoers rule for passwordless shutdown
- `config.yml` - configuration (times, interval)

## Installation

```bash
bash scripts/install.sh
```

The installer will:
1. Copy scripts to `~/.local/bin/`
2. Install the LaunchAgent
3. Install a sudoers rule (requires your password once) to allow shutdown without prompts

## Configuration

Edit `config.yml`:

```yaml
start_time: "21:00"              # 9 PM - quiet hours start
end_time: "08:00"                # 8 AM - quiet hours end
lock_interval_seconds: 300       # 5 minutes - check/shutdown interval
```

After editing, reload:
```bash
hardstop reload
```

## Commands

```bash
hardstop status    # Check if in quiet hours and if service is enabled
hardstop test      # Test without actually shutting down
hardstop disable   # Temporarily disable enforcement
hardstop enable    # Re-enable enforcement
hardstop reload    # Reload after config changes
hardstop config    # Edit configuration file
hardstop install   # Re-install from repo
```

If `hardstop` is not found, add `~/.local/bin` to your PATH or use:
```bash
~/.local/bin/hardstop <command>
```

## Sudoers Setup

The installer automatically installs a sudoers rule to `/etc/sudoers.d/hardstop-shutdown` that allows the `shutdown` command to run without a password prompt.

If you need to install it manually:
```bash
sudo cp sudoers/hardstop-shutdown /etc/sudoers.d/hardstop-shutdown
sudo chmod 440 /etc/sudoers.d/hardstop-shutdown
sudo chown root:wheel /etc/sudoers.d/hardstop-shutdown
```

## Disable

Temporarily:
```bash
hardstop disable
```

Permanently (remove everything):
```bash
hardstop disable
rm ~/.local/bin/hardstop*
rm ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.hardstop.kickout.plist
sudo rm /etc/sudoers.d/hardstop-shutdown
```

## Troubleshooting

**Shutdown doesn't happen?**
- Check if the service is enabled: `hardstop status`
- Test the time logic: `hardstop test`
- Verify sudoers is installed: `sudo -n /sbin/shutdown -h now` (should not prompt for password)

**Want to change the times?**
- Edit `config.yml` and run `hardstop reload`

**Need to escape quiet hours?**
- Run `hardstop disable` quickly after booting, before the 5-minute check runs

Commit message:

Add test suite for verifying hard-stop functionality
- Tests file existence and bash syntax
- Tests config.yml parsing
- Tests plist validation (on macOS)
- 14 unit tests for time logic (quiet hours detection)
- Checks installation status and LaunchAgent
- All tests safe - no actual shutdowns occur

README.md, after:

# Hard Stop

A simple, aggressive computer shutdown enforcer for macOS. During quiet hours (default 9 PM - 8 AM), your computer will shut down. If you turn it back on, it will shut down again every 5 minutes until quiet hours end.

No warnings. No dialogs. Just shutdown.

## How It Works

1. A **macOS LaunchAgent** runs the script every 5 minutes (configurable)
2. If the current time is within quiet hours, it runs `sudo shutdown -h now`
3. If you turn your computer back on during quiet hours, it will shut down again
4. This continues until 8 AM when quiet hours end

**Note on timing**: The first shutdown happens at the first 5-minute interval check after 9 PM (not exactly at 9:00 PM). Worst case is ~5 minutes after 9 PM.

### Why LaunchAgent (not cron)?

This uses macOS's native `launchd` system instead of cron:
- LaunchAgents are user-session aware (only run when logged in)
- Managed via `launchctl` commands
- The plist file defines the schedule (`StartInterval: 300` = every 300 seconds)

## Files

- `scripts/hardstop-kickout.sh` - the enforcement script (checks time, shuts down)
- `scripts/hardstop` - CLI wrapper for managing the service
- `scripts/install.sh` - installer
- `scripts/test.sh` - test suite (safe, no actual shutdowns)
- `launchd/com.hardstop.kickout.plist` - LaunchAgent configuration
- `sudoers/hardstop-shutdown` - sudoers rule for passwordless shutdown
- `config.yml` - configuration (times, interval)

## Installation

```bash
bash scripts/install.sh
```

The installer will:
1. Copy scripts to `~/.local/bin/`
2. Install the LaunchAgent
3. Install a sudoers rule (requires your password once) to allow shutdown without prompts

## Configuration

Edit `config.yml`:

```yaml
start_time: "21:00"              # 9 PM - quiet hours start
end_time: "08:00"                # 8 AM - quiet hours end
lock_interval_seconds: 300       # 5 minutes - check/shutdown interval
```

After editing, reload:
```bash
hardstop reload
```

## Commands

```bash
hardstop status    # Check if in quiet hours and if service is enabled
hardstop test      # Test without actually shutting down
hardstop disable   # Temporarily disable enforcement
hardstop enable    # Re-enable enforcement
hardstop reload    # Reload after config changes
hardstop config    # Edit configuration file
hardstop install   # Re-install from repo
```

If `hardstop` is not found, add `~/.local/bin` to your PATH or use:
```bash
~/.local/bin/hardstop <command>
```

## Sudoers Setup

The installer automatically installs a sudoers rule to `/etc/sudoers.d/hardstop-shutdown` that allows the `shutdown` command to run without a password prompt.

If you need to install it manually:
```bash
sudo cp sudoers/hardstop-shutdown /etc/sudoers.d/hardstop-shutdown
sudo chmod 440 /etc/sudoers.d/hardstop-shutdown
sudo chown root:wheel /etc/sudoers.d/hardstop-shutdown
```

## Disable

Temporarily:
```bash
hardstop disable
```

Permanently (remove everything):
```bash
hardstop disable
rm ~/.local/bin/hardstop*
rm ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.hardstop.kickout.plist
sudo rm /etc/sudoers.d/hardstop-shutdown
```

## Testing

Run the test suite to verify everything is working:

```bash
bash scripts/test.sh
```

The test suite checks:
- All required files exist
- Script syntax is valid
- Config file parses correctly
- Time logic works (unit tests for quiet hours detection)
- Installation paths are correct
- LaunchAgent is loaded (on macOS)

All tests are safe - no actual shutdowns will occur.

## Troubleshooting

**Shutdown doesn't happen?**
- Check if the service is enabled: `hardstop status`
- Test the time logic: `hardstop test`
- Verify sudoers is installed: `sudo -n /sbin/shutdown -h now` (should not prompt for password)

**Want to change the times?**
- Edit `config.yml` and run `hardstop reload`

**Need to escape quiet hours?**
- Run `hardstop disable` quickly after booting, before the 5-minute check runs
